is it really safe to fly anyone out of
Wuhan back to the UK given a severity of
the coronavirus so Jennifer would you
rather that we didn't there we left them
there oh yeah I think I would I think
they should be quarantined there
I don't think given it's like a plague
it seems I don't know the severity or
the mortality rate and does it kill
everybody who's affected I don't know I
think they should stay that well it's
not killing everyone affected no because
it's a thousands of people have been
infected and and over 100 people have
have died but no it certainly hasn't all
those who've been looking about seven
thousand people dead and that would well
I can't even imagine that
and Jeff leave him there it's quite
really hoping it comes to me and this
yeah it is one of these things that kind
of these news stories that that ticks
over so I'm gonna do the thing that are
you want to watch in question so I'm
often thinking you don't know what
you're talking about mate let someone
else have a go so it can be really brief
and say that and so ever said that in my
[Applause]
no I'll leave this one to the
politicians I just say one good thing I
think is that you know where is this an
issue where China has historically
sometimes being a bit guarded in this
respect they're sort of being quite open
I think that's constructive but I'll let
the experts take over okay there's a
woman you're looking quite exercised
about it with your pink scarf on I can't
quite understand what's going on because
first of all we're told that there's
going to be self isolation secondly
we're told that this quarantine yes it's
gonna be a hospital though or if any in
the world they're going to come back I
plane together going military building
to which they're going to be together
until there's a symptom that appears and
so and also what's going to happen in
the airplane with the air conditioning
with the two hundred people come back
together I'm just a bit concerned about
these people coming back what case if
there's one infected person on the plane
and will infect everybody I mean pick
the whole plane and and also apparently
since January there's a 1200-1500 that
actually come back from Japan from China
who N and only a few have been trackable
so where are these people and are the
public at risk I don't know we haven't
had an outbreak yet have you been well
that was on television staying it and it
was also in the papers about the amount
right in the newspapers in the Guardian
and the Telegraph
Sasha should we be flying people back I
mean we've seen lots of people on on the
news desperate to come home not
something so on on that I'm not
qualified to answer Jennifer's question
what I did find out it's actually a last
week which is a fax an Avenue is Wuhan
is actually twinned with Manchester
which is a fact I think the government
did a really really poor job actually
when when the news first broke so
there's nine million people on lockdown
let's give you an idea Greater
Manchester's 2.8 million Scotland's five
million so that puts everything into
perspective and their advice was to get
out of the area when it's under lockdown
and there's no public transports and you
can't drive and you've got people and
we're watching on the news panicking for
the live skyping interviews over how are
you supposed to get out I know I've seen
today now there is a plane there and
it'll kind of bringing people coming
give her being black tonight loneguy to
the world but i just think it was too
little too late to be honest we should
have followed examples of other
countries right so we should certainly
be fine about there maybe more quickly
yes I'm a GP locally and with regards to
the corona virus I think the government
have done a good job I've got a
brilliant amount of information from
them very very quickly what I think the
problem is is the press I think they're
scare mongering I don't think they give
the correct information obviously well
yes hopefully Fergus my colleague folks
I'm doing a reasonable job what about
what the lady was saying there about
everyone coming back on the plane and
will that will everyone will and what
will they end up infecting each other I
mean it's an incredibly contagious form
of a flu virus essentially and what
nobody ever talks about is the military
staff and the medical staff they are
likely to be carriers than him you're
going to infect people but where are
they going
right is it almost as many questions
we've got answers here um Sarah oh I
mean 150 people are flying back tonight
possibly as we speak was this the right
move yeah I mean again I wouldn't claim
to be an expert
I think the point about trying to doing
the right thing this time is absolutely
right there's been much more open and I
think you know I'm not making a point
about brexit at all I'm just saying when
we leave we need to make sure we've got
those cross government cross country
working together because actually you
know this that has no borders I think
there has been criticism of the
government in that they have been a bit
slower to act than other countries I
think the information that people have
have got has been and maybe it's the
government's fault maybe it's it's the
public health role to get that
information out but you know are people
being screened aren't they are people
being brought back aren't they we've all
heard interviews on the radio of people
who are in wuhan who are trying to come
back who feel like
they're on their own and they aren't
getting the help they need do you think
it's the right thing to bring them back
I think if we can I think the quarantine
is that is is what we do and that's the
sensible approach I would say that you
know we do public health really well in
this country but there has been a huge
cut to the budgets and our diplomatic
services is a 20-year low in terms of
funding so the embassy in you know in it
in China they'll be struggling with our
public health approach will be will be
struggling because because we don't have
the resources that we once had but I
think as a country we tend to be quite
good at managing these kind of crises
and and and you know we we all need to
make sure we're not trying to scare
monger but a lot of flights now have
been canceled coming in and out of the
whole of China there's a lot of people
in the whole of China that might need to
come back and if this escalates quickly
we need to know what is the government
plan right and it's just been declared a
global emergency by the World Health
Organization tonight a minute I mean I'm
thinking from National Farmers Union
perspective I'm not entirely sure what
your your your your view and this would
but but Jennifer's point where she you
don't feel it is a good idea to fly
people back despite the pleading that
we've been hearing over the Airways over
the last few days John Fowler I'd I
absolutely sympathize with that but I
think if you or I were out there we
probably feel pretty desperate to come
to come back you know it's a really
complex virus it's a zoonosis so it can
jump from animal to human and it just
shows how different affectively China is
to here so this was a wet market in
Wuhan where they bring in live animals
so they have snakes marmots bats they
very much the feeling is this jumped
from a bat to a domestic animal and that
was half passed on to humans so I think
there are there are big lessons actually
to be learned in how these things are
spread how these zoonosis viruses spread
how they mutate and it's a real lesson I
guess in all the whole standards piece
you know China had that horrendous
outbreak whereby they had contaminated
baby milk and they put 56,000 babies
into hospital and so we've got it I
think learn from what has happened and
I'm sure the Chinese the Chinese seem to
have reacted really really quickly to
all of this but they will have big big
lessons
to learn on the back of this that if you
have live animals wild animals are
coming into markets where there is food
being sold this is how these things can
jump and its enormous ly dangerous and
now we have you know a global situation
on the back of it on the back
potentially of one bat and then
descendant yes to exactly what you were
saying how can the UK in the
international community pressurize China
into closing down these wet markets that
deal in endangered species and create
these zoonotic viruses which jump
species how can we actually pressurize
them to close them down and stop
happening again SARS and avian flu
feeding quarantine there's two weeks
what happens if they caught the virus
world within the two weeks are they
going to be monitored after the Fenian
quarantine
all right so James I'm sure you've been
briefed up to the gills on this subject
since the flight what is going out
tonight or has already left with these
people so so what is gonna happen so 150
people are coming back 50 from other EU
countries they're going to this place in
the will where they're gonna stay for
two weeks
and then what well firstly the simple
answer to your question Jennifer is yes
it is absolutely right we bring these
people home we have a responsibility and
we are making good on that
responsibility we're lucky in the UK
that we have some genuine world-class
experts in disease management and when
when these things happen the people
involved in this have done exercises
they practice their procedures they've
practiced and the GP doctor I didn't
catch your name word to apologize is
right we disseminate information to
medical practitioners so they know what
to expect they know the parameters and
the and the the isolation that we're
putting people into will be designed
specifically to make sure that before
people are allowed back into wider
community they are no longer a medical
risk these
things are done incredibly
professionally and as I say we should as
a country be very very proud that we
have got some very experienced
practitioners in in this we've exercised
flew we've we had that fantastic respond
my mother's from Syria we had that
fantastic response to Ebola in West
Africa but I think we can be incredibly
proud of this is incredibly scary I
understand that and it's legitimate that
people are worried but we are global
experts in dealing with this kind of
thing and the fact that Chinese have
been very open that they've communicated
with the international community they're
sharing information I think is to their
credit and has helped the global medical
community deal with what is a very very
what can we all expect to happen now in
that it's now a corua versa now in
every region in China it's now been
declared a global emergency by the World
Health Organization which brings with it
certain procedures that may not follow
such as for example stopping all flights
to China I mean it extraordinary that
they may sound what can we expect to
follow now I'm not gonna speculate I
don't I think we all agree on the panel
I don't pretend to know enough about the
procedures policy well as I say I'm not
gonna speculate because this is where
this is one of these areas where we do
have experts medical experts who are
experienced they're practiced they have
they've done training exercises around
this kind of thing and we will we will
rely on those experts to use the
experience that they've they've got to
guide government policy and our reaction
but the point I would say is the
headlines around these thing can be
incredibly disconcerting but we we are
as I say amongst the best in the world
at dealing with these
[Applause]
you